- [Step 0. Understand docker-compose](#step-0-understand-docker-compose)
- [Step 1. Write a docker-compose file that will run the previously created `mydockerapp` service](#step-1-write-a-docker-compose-file-that-will-run-the-previously-created-mydockerapp-service)
- [Step 2. Run 2 instances of `mydockerapp`](#step-2-run-2-instances-of-mydockerapp)
- [Step 3. Use environment variables](#step-3-use-environment-variables)
- [Step 3. Using `.env` files](#step-3-using-env-files)
- [Step 4. Building an image using docker-compose](#step-4-building-an-image-using-docker-compose)
- [Step 5. Reducing code repetition](#step-5-reducing-code-repetition)
  

# Step 0. Understand docker-compose

**Hints:**

- Documentation: [https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/)
- Indentation matters!
- Yaml supports comments (#) or `Crt+K`, `Crtl+C` (works in VS Code, but not in Visual Studio)
- Port mapping works as follows: `EXTERNAL_PORT:INTERNAL_PORT`
- The file should be named docker-compose.yml
- `services` - section for declaring services to be run.

Example file (write it as `docker-compose.yml` ):

```yaml
services: # One of the first level objects in yaml docker-compose. Specifies services that will be run
  redis: # service name (equivalent to --name)
    image: redis:latest # image
    ports: # ports
      - "6379:6379" # notice how ports are declared. This is how lists are defined
```

Docker compose commands:
- `docker compose up` - **creates** and starts the environment.
- `docker compose down` - stops and **removes** the environment.
- `docker compose start` - starts the environment.
- `docker compose stop` - stops the environment.

# Step 1. Write a docker-compose file that will run the previously created `mydockerapp` service

Knowing how docker compose works write a docker compose file that will run `mydockerapp` from `Ex02`.

# Step 2. Run 2 instances of `mydockerapp`

By changing the `docker-compose` file, run two instances of `mydockerapp`

# Step 3. Use environment variables

When we want to pass environment variables to a Docker container we use a command:

```bash
docker run --env VAR1=value1 --env VAR2=value2 ubuntu
```

Pass those variables to your `mydockerapp` in Docker compose.

# Step 3. Using `.env` files

Docker compose supports reading environment variables from a file.

**Task:**

Move environment variables to a separate files with two use cases:
- file that will be read from by default
- file for `dev` environment (if should be passed explicitly)
  
# Step 4. Building an image using docker-compose

**Task:**

Add appropriate sections to the `docker-compose` file to enable building images using the `docker-compose build` command

**Hints:**
- Documentation for the build section: [https://docs.docker.com/reference/compose-file/services/](https://docs.docker.com/reference/compose-file/services/)

**Docker compose commands:**
- `docker-compose up` - starts the environment. Without building!
- `docker-compose build` - when executed in the directory with the `docker-compose.yaml` file, builds the services.
- `docker-compose up --build` - builds and runs the services.


# Step 5. Reducing code repetition

Yaml enables inheritance. To achieve this, use the following syntax in the yaml file:
- `SOMETHING: &XXX` - naming a section (everything from this indentation level down) that will be reused
- `SOMETHING_SIMILAR:<<: *XXX` - declaration that `SOMETHING_SIMILAR` inherits from `SOMETHING`

Full description of this is [here (in paragraph `3. Anchors and alias`)](https://spacelift.io/blog/yaml)