# Build a basic Docker image for node.js

## Step 0. Understand Node build and execution process

Before creating the Docker file we first need to understand the node app process.
Remember that the Docker file has to recreate every step needed to **build** and **run** the application.

In our case those were the steps needed to create and run the application (don't run them):

```bash
sudo apt install nodejs #instals nodejs
mkdir node-docker-app && cd node-docker-app #creates a directory and enters it
npm init -y # Initiate node here
npm install express # Install express framework
npm install --only=production
node server.js #This runs the mode server in a waiting loop
```
## Step 1. Write a basic Dockerfile

With the knowledge of how Node works write a Dockerfile.

A sample Dockerfile looks like this in `Dockerfile` in the folder.

You will also need two sets of commands:

### Dockerfile Commands:
- `FROM XXX` - specifies the layer we are using. Where XXX is the docker image. For building, we'll use the image `node:20-alpine`
- `COPY [ "local_source", "container_dest" ]` - copies local files/directories to the container. Brackets **are** important
- `WORKDIR` - specifies the working directory (commands will be executed relative to this directory).
- `RUN` - executes a command in the console inside the container
- `EXPOSE` - it exposes a port. We will be exposing port `3000`
- `CMD` - it specifies what command will be executed when the container will run. The container will be executing as long as this command. If it stops or terminates, container will exit.
  

### Console Commands:
- `docker build . -t MYTAG` - builds the Dockerfile existing in the current directory and gives it the tag MYTAG
- `docker images` - displays all images in the repository
- `docker images XXX` - displays all images named XXX

## Step 2. Optimize Docker build image

Remember that Docker build caches each step. If the step didn't change it will be taken from cache. 

Knowing it:
- How can we optimize the build process?
- What changes most often and what doesn't change that often?