- [Multi step build](#multi-step-build)
  - [Step 0. Understand the .Net application build and run](#step-0-understand-the-net-application-build-and-run)
  - [We want to transfer the following process to Dockerfile](#we-want-to-transfer-the-following-process-to-dockerfile)
  - [Step 1. Building the application in a Container](#step-1-building-the-application-in-a-container)
    - [Dockerfile commands:](#dockerfile-commands)
  - [Step 2. Copy files between containers an execution container](#step-2-copy-files-between-containers-an-execution-container)
  - [Step 3. Running the application in a Container](#step-3-running-the-application-in-a-container)

# Multi step build

## Step 0. Understand the .Net application build and run

```bash
dotnet new mvc -n mydockerapp

cd mydockerapp

# Run the project
dotnet run

# Open the website in the browser
```

## We want to transfer the following process to Dockerfile

```bash
dotnet restore "mydockerapp.csproj" # Restores the dependencies. It only need the *.csproj file
dotnet build "mydockerapp.csproj" -c Release -o /out # Builds the application. Makes sure that the application code compiles. It needs the whole source code.
dotnet publish "mydockerapp.csproj" -c Release -o /app # Builds and optimizes the application

dotnet mydockerapp.dll # Runs the app
```

## Step 1. Building the application in a Container

**The problem:**

For compiled applications there are two images:
- one for compiling the code and generating a run assembly
- second for running the code

The second image is smaller and more optimized. It is a bad practice to use the build image to run the application.

So we need to copy the build code from the build image to the run image.

First lets build the code.

Knowing what you know from the previous exercise, create a `Dockerfile` in the current directory with proper code.

For this task, you'll need two sets of commands:

### Dockerfile commands:
- `FROM XXX` - specifies the layer we are using. Where XXX is the docker image. For building, we'll use the image `mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:9.0`
- `COPY [ "local_source", "container_dest" ]` - copies local files to the container. Brackets are important
- `WORKDIR` - specifies the working directory (commands will be executed relative to this directory)
- `RUN` - executes a command in the console inside the container

.NET Core Commands:
- `dotnet restore "XXX.csproj"` - restores .NET Core packages
- `dotnet build "XXX.csproj" -c Release -o /YYY` - builds the project
    Legend:
    - `XXX.csproj` - is the path to the csproj file
    - `YYY` - is the directory where we want to place the built artifacts

- `dotnet publish "XXX.csproj" -c Release -o /app` - prepares a .NET Core package ready for publication

Console Commands:
- `docker build . -t MYTAG` - builds the Dockerfile existing in the current directory and gives it the tag MYTAG
- `docker images` - displays all images in the repository
- `docker images XXX` - displays all images named XXX

## Step 2. Copy files between containers an execution container

Dockerfile Commands:
- `FROM image AS name` - adding `AS` after the image name allows you to use a custom name for the docker image. Commands apply to the last `FROM` image. The execution image will be `mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:9.0`
- `COPY --from=XXX /app .` - `--from=XXX` where `XXX` is the **name of the docker image** from which we will be copying files.

## Step 3. Running the application in a Container

Now we need to configure the run image.

Dockerfile Commands/Information:
- `EXPOSE XXXX` - exposes port XX to the outside. We will be exposing `8080`
- `ENTRYPOINT ["exec", "parameters"]` - specifies which command should be run when executing docker run. **Read the documentation what is the difference between `CMD` and `ENTRYPOINT`**

.NET Core Commands:
- `dotnet XXX.dll` - runs the .NET application

Console Commands:
- `docker run --rm -p LOCAL_PORT:DOCKER_PORT --name CONTAINER_NAME DOCKER_IMAGE` - creates and runs an instance of the docker container.

Where:
- `--rm` - after stopping, the container will be automatically removed
- `-p` - port mapping
- `--name` - assigns a custom name to the running container
